[WHOOSH]
[GAIA JINGLE PLAYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's pain in life,
and there's suffering.
Pain we can't avoid.
Suffering is optional.
And one of the great
reasons we suffer
is because we believe
there's reasons for why
things happen as they do.
But life is not reasonable,
and it never will be.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Whether we realize it or
not, we're all essentially
anchored in a belief
that God is on our side
or that justice
should work for me
and that if we've not done
anything bad, then nothing bad
should ever happen to me.
We want this world to
be a reasonable place,
that we want life to
be some kind of force
that we can reason with.
And where did our
love of reason come
from, and why is it important
to understand its origin?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You know, the threads of
our allegiance to reason,
versus virtue or the left or
the right side of our brain,
really goes all the way
back to ancient Greece,
to Plato and Aristotle.
They debated how this
universe was structured.
Was it more valuable to pursue
logic, or reason, or virtue,
or beauty?
Was beauty and virtue
the way of order,
or was it logic or reason?
What would serve a
person more to know
as they lived in this universe?
And they debated
this because they
were teaching their students
to live in this universe,
to live in this world.
One was a more intuitive
path, and the other one
was more reasonable, as
if, somehow or other,
there could be found an ultimate
logical, reasonable system
through which we could
finally, finally, finally deal
with the gods, deal
with the heavens,
in order to stop sudden chance
from happening in our lives--
that we could, somehow or
other, stop unreasonable things
from happening.
So you see, going
back, we've always
wanted the universe to
somehow be an organized place.
It's just that it never
listened to us, ever.
So now what does all this have
to do with defying gravity?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're going to come into this
through the Old Testament,
my very favorite book,
which is the Book of Job.
And I think most people
know the story of Job.
You know, the righteous man,
and the devil came up to Yahweh
and said, I could tempt
your most righteous man.
And of course, Yahweh says to
the devil, well, have at it.
Give it your best shot.
[SOUND OF LIGHTNING]
So the devil kills Job's
crops, and he starts
just destroying his life.
And every single time
something bad happens to Job,
his neighbors would come
over and they would say,
you must have done
something terrible,
otherwise a reasonable god
wouldn't do this to you.
And he'd say, but I
didn't do anything.
I didn't do anything.
And finally, Job's wife
dies, his crops are gone,
he's lost everything--
absolutely everything.
But then, of course,
the neighbors
want job to confess something
because this is how they've
structured their universe.
And if Job didn't
do anything wrong,
it meant that this whimsical
god could suddenly strike
something in their life too.
So they had to find Joe
guilty of something, you see.
So then an angel comes up to Job
and says, maybe it's you, Job.
Maybe it's your attitude.
Maybe God should talk to you.
So he says, prepare
to talk to God.
This is the most
wonderful line, I
think, in the whole
Old Testament,
where Yahweh says to
Job, where were you
when I laid the foundations
of this universe?
Where were you when
I named the beasts,
and I ordered the
birds, and I structured
the planets and the galaxies?
And here's Job,
who, by this time,
is just this little piece
of sand on a grand beach.
Now, can you imagine--
as I say to my students, think
of your way saying this to you.
When you are looking at your
life and you're thinking,
how could this happen
to me, whatever it is
that you're thinking about--
how could my life
be such a mess,
how could this happen to me?
There must be a reason
in God in this universe
because look at us.
We're reasoning creatures.
So there must be
a reasoning God.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our love affair with reason
has scaffolded our thinking out
of the soul and into the mind.
And in so doing, it shifted the
way we related to everything,
including our health.
The underlying
premise is that if we
can excavate these
reasons, then our lives
will return to normal.
We will revive our
health and be just as
vibrant as we were
before, but the truth
is this rarely happens.
We cannot reason our
way back to health.
You cannot reason with illness
or crisis because crises are
the most unreasonable events
that will ever happen to you.
Well, and with that
in mind, every time--
we say, I need a reason for
why things happen as they do.
No you don't.
I can give you a reason.
Anyone can give you a reason.
But the fact is, however
the universe is ordered,
this is what's true.
You are not the center
of the universe.
We are, none of us, the
center of the universe.
And there are reasons for
why things happen as they do,
but I'm not sure we can
understand those reasons.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm going to give
you a reason why you
can't understand the reason.
And you know, people are
really comfortable these days
with reincarnation,
with thinking
that maybe it's stress or it's
toxic relationship with someone
came from a past life.
They don't have any
problem with that.
Let me tell you something.
Some of the readings I've done--
not a lot, but some--
I recognized that a
pattern that I was seeing--
let's call it an influencer--
was not from a past life, but
from a life yet to be lived--
yet to be lived--
that the reason a person
was having a particular type
of challenge was
that it had something
to do with something yet to
happen in the physical world.
So that's number one.
And so that's a factor that
doesn't even occur to us.
We are comfortable thinking
in terms of our history,
but we have yet to even
begin to comprehend.
We are living in a
world of simultaneity,
but we can't comprehend that.
We still think in
terms of, there
must be one reason for every
one thing that happens to us.
And yet, there is karma, and
there's lives yet to be lived,
and there's influences of
other people in our lives.
And if all of
that's true, how can
there just be one reason for
why things happen as they do?
So you see we can't
have things both ways.
And because we can't possibly
comprehend the true reasons
why things happen as they do--
I'll tell you something.
The need for a
reason is actually
a psychic weight that prevents
the miraculous from happening.
I'll give you an example
that defies gravity.
The college I went to, it
was founded by French nuns
a long time ago in the 1840s.
And the woman who founded
it was, not so long ago,
canonized the eighth
American saint.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So here's the miracle that
got her into sainthood.
This one man was blind.
He had cataracts over his eyes.
And he couldn't see
anything except, like,
5% light coming through.
He knew about the sisters
praying for this canonization.
On the way back
from an appointment
with his ophthalmologist,
he said to his wife,
would you stop at that church?
And I just want to say a prayer.
He goes to a painting of
Sister Garen and said,
I know you don't know me
and I'm not a Catholic,
but if you have any influence,
I'd appreciate your help.
That was his prayer.
[SIGHS] And the
next day he woke up,
and the cataracts
were still there,
but he had 20/20 vision,
which he still has.
And he went to his
ophthalmologist, who said,
this is impossible.
This can't happen.
But it did.
Classic miracle speak.
Here's the thing.
A miracle is something
that's totally beyond reason.
The nature of God--
and by the way, I'm
going to say this.
I am not politically correct,
and I have no use for that.
So when I say God,
if you need to hear
Goddess, whatever you need
to hear, throw it in there.
But I say god, and
that's the end of it.
Are we clear?
OK.
Keep going.
A woman came into
one of my workshops.
She had a slow
growing brain tumor.
And by this time, I was teaching
the work of Teresa of Ãvila
and "The Interior Castle."
And I would lead people
on prayers for healing.
And what I told them, as
I'm going to tell you now--
and this is the nature
of sacred power,
and it's the nature of
healing beyond reason--
beyond reason.
And one of the
things about prayer
is you have to be willing to
let unreasonable things happen
within you and around you.
And the way of your soul is to
get you to become unreasonable.
So you can see that there
is an inherent clash in you
because you want people
to be reasonable.
You want life to be--
and it's not
reasonable, controlling.
But in fact, when your back is
against the wall with illness,
the only way out of a terminal
illness, in so many cases,
is something crazy and
unreasonable, like a miracle.
So here's this woman
in my workshop,
and she just said
this prayer, whatever
it takes, whatever it
takes, which is really
quite an unreasonable prayer.
It means whatever it takes.
She came to a later
workshop of mine.
And she came up to me and she
said, my brain tumor is gone.
And she said, I want you to know
that I came to your workshop.
And she said it was
spreading, it was malignant,
and I was given a
few months to live.
And she said, and
I decided I'm going
to give the most
unreasonable prayer ever,
which is whatever it takes.
And somehow, in that
moment, she said
I felt grace comes through.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You may think that miracles
or these extraordinary things
happen to extraordinary
people, but I have
to tell you that is not true.
You have to make
the choice to become
spiritually unreasonable--
absolutely unreasonable.
It begins with a deep
journey into yourself.
This is a trick that I get
people to do in my workshop.
You need to get
to know yourself,
but in ways that
perhaps show you
something to make
you uncomfortable,
but it's a good uncomfortable.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You know what?
I don't think you get how many
rules you have about yourself.
So the first thing
you're going to do
is something that is
incredibly unreasonable.
You're going to
create a rule book.
And this is an
unreasonable thing to do,
but people have
rules for themselves
because they want life to be
reasonable and controlling.
And so we create rules,
all kinds of rules.
We have a list of needs
that go from here to there.
This is what I need to eat.
This is how I need
to be spoken to.
For example, Julie
needs to have you look
at her every time she speaks.
And Jack needs quiet
time past 8:00 PM.
And Laura?
She needs to win every
argument she engages in.
So one of the things
I do in my workshops
is I have people write
out their rule books.
This is the tone of
voice you need to use.
You can't use (HIGHER
PITCH) this tone of voice,
but you can use (LOWER
PITCH) this tone of voice.
And what the point
of this workshop is
is that you've made
up all these rules.
They're all subjective.
You've decided these
are the rules of my life
that everybody has to follow
in order to get along with me.
I need this much attention.
I need this kind of food.
I said to someone else, or what?
Exactly or what?
Or I won't be happy.
I'll be angry.
And then what?
OK.
So here's the thing I want
you to do your rulebook.
Because what I have people do
in my workshops is, once they
create their rulebook, I have
them introduce themselves
to someone they've never
met before, and hand over
the rulebook, and
say, hi, there.
My name is Kathy, or, my name
is Linda, or, my name is Tom,
and here are the rules
you need to know in order
to get to know me.
It is an experience of your
ego, and how frightened
you are to have your
world be out of control,
and what you will do to control
others before they control you.
It's a very humbling exercise.
It's a first step of getting
to know how afraid you
are of letting go.
This is about you
learning to defy gravity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, what do I mean
by defying gravity?
Gravity is
weightlessness, right?
But here's something
else about gravity.
Gravity, the root
of it is gravitas--
gravitas-- which is weight.
Now, you know what I learned
as a medical intuitive?
When you attach to
something energetically,
you give it weight.
You give it energetic weight.
And when you give
something weight--
W-E-I-G-H-T-- you actually
attach a relationship to time.
The more weight you give, the
longer you have to W-A-I-T
for everything.
So weight-- W-E-I-G-H-T--
equals an anchor.
So when you create
anchors for yourself,
you're literally creating
ways that are going
to take you to the grave--
gravitas.
And this is why Buddha
would always say,
you have to spot these illusions
and not attach yourself.
You're deciding, that
person broke my rules.
He said something,
she said something,
and I'm now deciding to
take that personally.
How many times in my life
I have gotten off a stage
after lecturing for hours,
and hours, and hours,
and I've been so tired,
and I've wanted to go back.
And someone has said,
could I just talked to you
for a moment?
And I thought, I
have been lecturing
for fruits 17,000 hours,
and I just want to go away.
And then I'd say, excuse me,
but I need to just leave here.
And they've taken my
exhaustion personally,
as if it had anything
to do with them.
Now, one of the things about
you beginning to lighten up
and becoming a free-floating
field is that you decide,
this is not a personal universe.
It's an impersonal universe.
I have to stop taking
things personally.
Think of Job.
This universe was not
created personally.
Nothing could be more
irrational a thought than
to think this universe
was created for me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Everybody I know
either knows somebody
or has a family member
that is connected
to Alcoholics Anonymous.
One of the blessings
of Alcoholics Anonymous
is that Bill Wilson's program
made the study of addiction
impersonal--
totally impersonal.
He introduced the
addict and addiction
as an impersonal struggle
that people personally, then,
related to.
So he created this
duality that addiction
was, at the same time,
an impersonal while
being personal.
And he identified the
archetype of the addict.
And because of that, he
allowed the individual
to separate from the
pattern of addiction
and said, addicts
behave this way.
And so people I know
who are part of AA who
have had that will
say, here's the person
I love, and there's the disease.
The impersonal and the
personal, but the disease
behaves this way.
And because of that, millions
and millions of lives
have been saved,
and love prevails.
And that is the mentality
that I'm talking about.
So in that same way,
we're going to talk
about how is it that
we learn to approach
the universe in a way that
allows you to see grace
in action in a universe that
is both totally impersonal
and personal simultaneously--
that it is a place
where the ordinary
happens among the
extraordinary all the time?
But the thing is a miracle--
a miracle.
The reason I kind
of balk at that word
is because a miracle is for
the spiritually, how do I say,
amateurs--
for people who don't
get how God works.
If you think of
miracles as ordinary,
then they're not miracles.
They're just the nature
of God in everyday action
in a world that
functions on faith.
Now, think about your
world functioning that way.
And this is what I'm
going to suggest you try.
My suggestions for
people is that they
detach from their
preexisting image
of God as a off-planet man.
We've anthropomorphized god.
And while I can't explain
it in full measure,
I could snap my
fingers and say, I
want you to look
up in the heavens
and see what's
happening is there's
a collision of the
gods going on--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
--of all the Abrahamic gods--
of Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam.
And they're all going kaboom
in the heavens right now--
[KABOOM]
--because the heaven is
closing down the holy man
God archetype.
It's served us, but
now we're moving
into the era of
galactic theology.
Even now, as, I'm
talking to you in Rome
there's a gathering
of theologians,
and astrophysicists, and
astrobiologists trying
to script a galactic theology--
a God that is larger than
our image of ourselves
on this planet.
Give up the need to know why
things happen as they do.
Start being spiritually
irrational--
irrational.
Instead of saying, tell
me why this happened,
remind yourself that you're a
grain of sand in a huge ocean,
and just say, help
me learn from this.
Connect with
meaning and purpose.
Don't expect meaning and purpose
to be delivered to your door
because it doesn't
happen that way.
You bring meaning and
purpose to everything.
Every word is power.
Words are power.
Watch how you frame
your universe.
And don't pray like
an ordinary mortal.
Prayers are not meant to
be petitions like you're
talking to Santa Claus.
Can I have?
Can I have more stuff?
Don't pray like a stuffologist.
Pray like you have
respect for the sacred.
And you pray with your soul.
Open me up.
Take me down deep, and
show me the reasons
you gave me this life, and give
me the candle on the night.
You're going to suffer.
That's life.
And you pray that you have the
courage not to betray people,
in yourself.
Make me courageous.
Make me integrous.
Make me merciful.
That's how you pray.
And pray like you're crazy.
Pray like you're a
wild person like I do.
Pray like you expect
an answer, like heaven
really is listening to you.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]